A magnitude-6.2 earthquake hit central Italy early Wednesday and rescuers are searching for survivors.

Catastrophic tremors leveled much of the ancient city of Bam, killing over 30,000 people and damaging or destroying 85% of the buildings.

The town of Minamisanriku was destroyed by the tsunami. About 9,500 people -- roughly half the town's population -- went missing and were presumed dead.

Global warming is expected to cause the flooding and erosion of at least 12 villages on the western coast of Alaska, according to the U.S. Government Accountability Office.

About 6.9 trillion gallons of rain pummeled Louisiana between August 8 and 14, according to meteorologist Ryan Maue. 

Hermine ripped into St. Marks in Florida's  Big Bend region as a Category 1 storm just before 2 a.m., becoming the first hurricane to come ashore in the state since Wilma struck 11 years ago.

Flooding also was a problem in Pasco County, north of Tampa. At least 18 people were rescued from rising floodwater there, Scott said.

According to Klotzbach, the four longest droughts in West Pacific history have occurred in 1973, 1983, 1998 and 2016.

Taiwan is about to be soaked by its second severe storm in just three days, with typhoon Malakas forecast to pass by the northern end of the island early on Saturday.

A magnitude 6.2 earthquake wiped out Amatrice , a town known for its famed Amatriciana pasta dish.

Authorities said the blaze destroyed or heavily damaged seven businesses and 14 apartments, displacing 60 people.

On January 8th at approximately 10:43am, these officers arrived to the scene on Hempstead Turnpike and observed people trapped in a second floor apartment. 

Some even wondered why this storm received a name while the devastating Louisiana floods in August did not meet the criteria for a named storm.

The fire was sparked Tuesday in San Bernardino County and spread to 37,000 acres by Friday, destroying at least 96 single-family homes and 213 outbuildings, fire officials said.

CalFire tweeted Saturday that the blaze is now about 73% contained -- a big improvement over a few days ago.

Hundreds of residents in Santa Clarita, California , are evacuating from a wildfire that is spreading.

An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 5.9 struck northern Colombia on Tuesday night, the US Geological Survey said.

Skinner says earthquakes in Oklahoma are generally not directly caused by fracking, but rather by pressure from the disposal wells, which are used by the industry to get rid of the toxic waste water that comes out of the earth along with oil and gas.

The largest was at 7:02 a.m. (8:02 a.m. ET), with the preliminary 5.6 magnitude. The other quake magnitudes ranged from 2.7 to 3.6.

Other tremors in these fracking regions include a 5.3-magnitude quake near Trinidad, Colorado, in 2011 and a 4.8-magnitude quake near Timpson, Texas, in 2012.

Mount St. Helens erupted on May 18, 1980, blowing off more than 1,000 feet from the top of the mountain, leaving a huge crater and spewing hot ash across the Northwest. 

It killed 57 people, ignited forest fires from the scattering of hot ash and caused floods as the snow melted from mountain tops.

They were aftershocks from the massive earthquake that killed at least 654  people and injured more than 4,000 in the same area last month, according to John Bellini with the U.S. Geological Survey.

