A smog outbreak in Southeast Asia last year may have caused over 100,000 premature deaths, according to a new study released Monday that triggered calls for action to tackle the “killer haze”.

The haze is an annual problem caused by fires set in forest and on carbon-rich peatland in Indonesia to quickly and cheaply clear land for palm oil and pulpwood plantations.

They estimated there were 91,600 deaths in Indonesia, 6,500 in Malaysia and 2,200 in Singapore.

Samoa has been hit by a hail storm so rare that it was believed to be a hoax by many of the island’s inhabitants.

It was only the second time since records began that hail has fallen on Samoa, the first was in 2011.

The strongest typhoon to hit China this year has left 28 people dead and 15 others missing in the east of the country.

Authorities in Fujian said Saturday that the typhoon had left 18 people dead and 11 missing, damaged more than 18,300 houses and caused direct economic losses of more than 16.9 billion yuan ($2.5bn).

Typhoon Nida has swept across Southern China , with the city of Guangzhou issuing its first-ever red storm alert and Hong Kong braced for flooding and landslides.

“It’s the strongest typhoon to hit the Pearl River Delta since 1983 and will bring severe flooding,” Xinhua cited local official He Guoqing as saying.

More than 220 flights out of Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Zhuhai airports were cancelled before the storm passed over Tuesday, the Sohu news portal said.

Nida brought strong winds and torrential rains to the northern Philippines over the weekend, while southern China has already been hard-hit by storms this summer.

Super Typhoon Nepartak brought chaos to Taiwan in July and left at least 69 dead once it made landfall in the mainland’s eastern province of Fujian, despite having been downgraded to a tropical storm.

Flash flooding, which struck a swathe of southern and eastern England on Friday, is a greater threat to homes, roads and railways than river or coastal flooding.

Flash flooding was the principal cause of the most damaging floods in UK history, which in 2007 caused over £3bn of damage, caused 13 deaths and was classified by the Environment Agency (EA) as a “national disaster”.

A southbound train derailed after hitting a landslide near Watford Junction at about 7am.

About 1,200 homes across Basingstoke, Newbury, Reading and Bournemouth were left without power as a result of lightning.

Away from the storms, Friday will be a relatively cool and fresh day for most of the country, with some sunshine.

Meranti, which grew in strength as it neared Taiwan, was carrying maximum winds of 134mph (216km/h), meteorologists said.

“This typhoon is the world’s strongest so far this year,” said weather bureau spokeswoman Hsieh Pei-yun. “Its impact on Taiwan will peak all day today.”

Tens of thousands of homes lost power across Taiwan as the island was hit by super-typhoon Meranti – a storm rated the strongest in the world so far this year.

