Geologists in New Zealand have discovered a magma chamber being born in a surprising place — not under the country’s most active volcanoes, but off to one side.

USGS reported that the earthquake hit around 1:21 a.m. local time Wednesday with its epicenter located about 382 miles (617 kilometers) south-southeast of Tokyo.

A typhoon has caused serious flooding and flight cancellations in southern Japan.

This image made from a video provided by WTHR 13 shows damage to homes after a tornado in Kokomo, Ind., Wednesday, Aug. 24, 2016. 

A series of at least 12 tornadoes passed through Indiana and Ohio damaging buildings, but causing no deaths or series injuries, officials said Thursday.

A man stands among damaged buildings in Amatrice, Italy, on Aug. 24 after a 6.2 magnitude earthquake hit the central part of the country in the early morning.

A large wildfire in Northern California has burned more than 3,000 acres and destroyed roughly 175 homes and businesses north of San Francisco.

The Northern California fire is a part of a series of fires in the American West this summer, and comes in the midst of stifling summer heat.

Arizona is grappling with a fast-spreading wildfire Thursday, as hundreds of people already have been evacuated from their homes.

The fire shut down a highway north of Phoenix, Arizona's largest metro area and state capital, and has destroyed three buildings.

The 2013 blaze was started by lighting strike and ended up destroying 130 homes. 

Japan's government is moving too slowly to rebuild from the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster of March 2011.

At 2:46 p.m. on Friday. March 11, 2011, a magnitude 9.0 earthquake – the fourth-most powerful quake recorded globally since 1900 – occurred in the Pacific Ocean about 80 miles southeast of Miyagi Prefecture.

Nearly 16,000 people died and nearly 2,600 others remain missing from the disaster, according to the Japanese government. T

International aid is flooding into Nepal as the small Asian nation reels from this weekend’s massive earthquake that killed more than 4,000 people, injured more than 7,000 and demolished tens of thousands of residents’ homes.

GeoHazards International earthquake safety nonprofit on April 12 posted a report to its website that described Kathmandu as the city with the greatest potential for earthquake lethality in all of Asia.

Many communities have still not moved on from the 7.0 magnitude earthquake that struck Haiti on Jan. 12, 2010

The number of trees in California's Sierra Nevada forests killed by drought is raising fears they will fuel catastrophic wildfires.

An active volcano in Ecuador, named Cotopaxi, could potentially threaten 325,000 people. President Rafael Correa declared a state of emergency in the wake of the volcanic activity.

The Calbuco volcano erupts near Puerto Varas, Chile, on Thursday. 

